= smart_field_constraints

+smart_field_constraints+ intelligently applies a maxlength attribute for text
fields based on column constraints and validations.

== Resources

API

* http://rdoc.info/github/pluginaweek/smart_field_constraints/master/frames

Bugs

* http://github.com/pluginaweek/smart_field_constraints/issues

Development

* http://github.com/pluginaweek/smart_field_constraints

Source

* git://github.com/pluginaweek/smart_field_constraints.git

== Description

HTML input field restrictions within forms can often help with both validation
and improving the user experience. Normally, adding the +maxlength+ configuration
option for input fields is not DRY and duplicates data already available in the
model or database. This plugin helps make this automatic.

+smart_field_constraints+ looks in two places for determining the maxlength value
for an input field:
* Model validates_length_of/validates_size_of validations
* Database column definitions (limits specifically)

Model validations will always take preference over database column definitions.

== Usage

There's nothing that you need to change to be able to use this plugin. It'll
just start automatically adding the +maxlength+ values it finds based on the
information described above (unless you define that option yourself).

=== Example

Model:
  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    validates_length_of :login, :maximum => 12
  end

View:
  text_field(:user, :login)

HTML:
  <input id="user_login" maxlength="12" name="user[login]" size="30" type="text" />

=== Textarea maxlengths

Since the +maxlength+ attribute is not W3C-compliant for textareas, it is not
included in the types of fields that will be automatically assigned length
constraints.  However, you can easily add this yourself by extending the plugin
yourself.  For an example of this see smart_field_constraints_textarea[http://github.com/grosser/smart_field_constraints_textarea].

== Caveats

=== Plugin load order

If you have plugins with models that are loaded *before* smart_field_constraints
is loaded, then any length validations defined in those models will *not* be
tracked and automatically used in form fields.  To fix this, you can adjust your
application's plugin load order to ensure that smart_field_constraints is loaded
first:

config/environment.rb:
  Rails::Initializer.run do |config|
    ...
    config.plugins = [:smart_field_constraints, :all]
    ...
  end

== Testing

Before you can run any tests, the following gem must be installed:
* plugin_test_helper[http://github.com/pluginaweek/plugin_test_helper]

To run against a specific version of Rails:

  rake test RAILS_FRAMEWORK_ROOT=/path/to/rails

== Dependencies

* Rails 2.0 or later
